>> Maximiliano Firtman: So,
if you're looking into your HTML,
we have already a toolbar here,
okay, that says button id Learn.
So I can add another button here,
so let's add another button and
let's call this btnInstall,
okay, something like that.
And we're going to say span
class like we can find an icon,
this is using icons,
I don't know, like, down.
I'm not sure if there is one down,
Install, okay?
So now we have a button that says Install,
let's try here.
>> Maximiliano Firtman: Yeah, well,
you can add an icon later,
it's not really the important part.
So the thing is that, okay,
I need now a handler for that, okay?
So well we go to JavaScript, so
I open app.js,
>> Maximiliano Firtman: And
again this is vanilla JavaScript.
I'm sorry if you are not comfortable with
this, but I will just do query selector.
Or if you want the old-fashioned
getElementById, it's up to you,
btnInstall, and
I will add an event listener for
it or an onClick event handler.
Sorry for that.
>> Maximiliano Firtman: I'm going to
do something, well, what should I do?
Can I request install?
I mean, there will be pretty good
if we can do something like this,
navigator.app.install, something
like that, but
unfortunately, we are not there yet.
So, it's not so simple.
Actually, I need to wait for the before
install prompt event to be fired.
So, okay, so
then that means that we need to listen for
that event, Window.addEventListener,
It's beforeinstallprompt, okay?
So we wait for that, okay,
so we wait and what?
What to do with that?
Here comes the tricky part, I mean,
it's not difficult, but it's weird.
It's odd when you say, hey, yeah.
So we need to create a global variable,
or a variable that you can use later.
I typically call that bip,
before install prompt or bipEvent.
We started without it, without one,
so null, and when we get it, I'm just
going to save this object that we received
here, you understand why in a sec.
So I will take it,
first I can call preventDefault, so
that will prevent the browser
to render any UI.
And then I will say bipEvent = event, so
I'm saving that for later, when is later?
Here, when you click the button,
I will check.
If I do have it, I will call an event
from it, it's called prompt.
That triggers the native
installation dialogue, just that.
And if not, I cannot trigger it, so
the only option is make an alert,
show in divs saying, hey,
well you need to go install it manually,
add to the home screen, whatever.
So for now, I will say,
sorry, do it manually.
Okay,of course,
give the user better instructions.
But it's kind of tricky, right?
So we wait for the event to happen,
we save that as kind of a token, and
then we use that later when
the user wants to install the app.
So now if I go back and refresh, if I
click here, I'm sorry, do it manually,
I'm sorry, do it manually,
what's going on?
The app is already installed, because
it's already installed it's not gonna
fire the event. It was one of the requirements.
So I need to uninstall the app for testing.
So I will open the app,
you uninstall the app from here, Uninstall.
Also you can see all your apps if you go
to about::apps, all the apps appear there.
Actually, the Edge version of this
is actually better, it's nicer,
the Microsoft Edge version.
So I need to uninstall the app from here.
Okay, uninstall, of course,
getting to the app again.
And now let's see, now you can see
my button is back there, my badge.
But now, if I click install here, well,
I have the native dialog, magic.
We have any question?
We should probably put this button
somewhere else, in the HTML, right?
Maybe what I'm doing wrong is
I should close this li and
open another li,
I think that it's a menu, right?
So, okay, now it's a little better,
but that's just CSS, okay?
You can play with that, but
now I can install from here, pretty cool.
>> Student: I was gonna ask
about selective CSS for
if it's already installed,
not showing the Install button.
>> Maximiliano Firtman: That's a good
thing, because if I install this,
I see the install,
now I don't want that, so let's do that.
So we go to CSS, and what I want,
let me add this to the bottom,
I want to use a media query, okay?
The media query,
I will write the media query in a sec,
will actually take the button Install and
they will say display.
I mean, I can hide it or show.
I can decide which media query to use,
but probably I will say display none.
So I'm removing it from the visual DOM,
remember it's display something.
Well, here it's called
display-mode in CSS.
When display-mode is standalone.
So when display-mode standalone,
I don't wanna see the button.
>> Maximiliano Firtman: That's
how you do that.
And it works everywhere, on every
platform iOS, Android, desktop it works.
Have in mind that you might
not be using standalone.
Maybe you're using minimal-ui or tab mode.
Remember to match this value
to your manifest, okay?
>> Student: Is there also a way to,
if you already have the app installed, but
you're on the web browser,
like a regular web browser and
it's already installed, just not display,
do you know what I mean?
Or say open-
>> Maximiliano Firtman: No, well,
okay I get it.
Well, there are two answers
to trigger problem.
First, something that we can do is we
can start with this button, actually
the whole the li can or maybe not the li,
because we will see some shift in the UI.
I can start hidden and maybe I can show
the button only if the event is fired.
That's when I'll say it's probably
not exactly what you were asking, but
I think it will solve the same problem.
So now we say when,
before install prompt happens,
I'm going to take I can take the,
I put it on the button, right?
I think so, so btnInstall and
I will say that hidden = false.
So now we can even see that actually-,
we are not seeing that actually.
So hidden is fine, right?
The btnInstall,
install everything is fine.
I don't have this, I think it may
have the service worker or not.
Just in case I will clear the whole site
data, that's good thing to do every time.
Also no, I don't wanna be offline.
Come on, we have a working app.
Now I'm still seeing the install,
so let's see why.
I do have hidden, and why I'm
seeing if it's hidden, interesting.
>> Maximiliano Firtman: Because I
think it's a CSS issue,
my CSS is replacing that display thing.
I can change that, or let me change
hidden form that, you got idea?
That it's my CSS here is saying that
buttons should always be display block.
And this is actually replacing the default
behavior for hidden buttons, okay?
That's what's going on,
I should say buttons that are not hidden,
Can you say that?
This is hidden,
how can you say not hidden?
>> Student: Colon not.
>> Maximiliano Firtman: Colon or not,
I use this not
>> Maximiliano Firtman: We can do that,
it seems little cryptic because it's
not hidden, you start thinking not,
not, of not I think it's a little dirty.
Maybe it's better to work
with classes here, okay?
Or just here for doing this quickly, I can
try work with disable instead of hidden,
just for the sake of this sample,
so let's see now.
>> Maximiliano Firtman: Now it's disabled,
but I should change the UI, right?
But now it's disabled and
it is going to be enabled after that.
But working with probably with CSS,
but I didn't answer your
question directly, right?
Another way that you have is
the getInstallRelatedApps that I
mentioned before,
it's a weird name, I know.
getInstalledRelatedApp is an API that
will let you know in JavaScript,
if an app is already installed.
It can be a native app,
it can also be a web app.
You need to do a couple of things,
actually.
Check if your website, no, there is
a section here that talk about a web app.
The this one tell your PWA about
itself [LAUGH], that's the section.
So, you need to add this to your manifest,
so it's kind of an advance thing.
So you need to add a related application
that points to the same manifest,
to itself.
When you do that, then from JavaScript,
you can check if the PWAs installed or
not, and then turn off, disable or
do whatever you want with your button.
That doesn't work,
unfortunately, in Safari.
In Safari in fact, there is no way to know
that an app is installed, and actually,
because you can install
more than one instance.
So actually,
I put that as one you to know.